DO NOT PULL 0911 network auth updates TEAM REVIEW (#1129)
GSA/idmanagement.gov: _implement/scl-windows.md

<div class="usa-alert usa-alert--error" role="alert">
  <div class="usa-alert__body">
    <h4 class="usa-alert__heading">September 2024 - Update to Microsoft Network Authentication Issue</h4>
    <p class="usa-alert__text">

>       As of September 10th 2024, Microsoft has released a solution for Active Directory network authentication issues resulting from the May 2022 patches that impacted some PIV network authentications. The September patch applies to Windows Server 2019 and later and includes a mechanism for support of "weak" identifiers asserted by PIV authentication certificates (e.g., UPN or X509IssuerSubject altsecid) and mapped to AD user accounts.  AD administrators now have the ability to add registry keys that include what is being termed a "Triple Mapping" or "Policy Tuple" that allows the domain controller to determine if an authentication certificate is issued from a trusted Certification Authority (CA) and if it asserts an acceptable policy OID before defining acceptable identifiers, which are then considered "strong."  You can read more about these AD changes in the following <a class="usa-link usa-link--external" href="https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/public-sector-blog/enable-strong-name-based-mapping-in-government-scenarios/ba-p/4240402" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Microsoft Public Sector Blog</a>.  Full enforcement mode for use of strong identifiers is still planned to go into effect on February 11, 2025 and compatibility mode will be fully retired on September 10th, 2025.  See Step 4 below regarding Account Linking for further details.

Reviewer: Even though "weak" is in quotes, I still think it will worry people unnecessarily. I suggest the following replacement text: 

... The September patch applies to Windows Server 2019 and later and includes a mechanism to support mapping of identifiers asserted by PIV authentication certificates (e.g., UPN or X509IssuerSubject altsecid) to AD user accounts.  AD administrators can define a "Triple Mapping" or "Policy Tuple" of Certification Authority (CA), Policy OID and acceptable identifiers. Identifiers included in the policy tuple are then considered "strong" for purposes of AD authentication. ...

Author: I have since updated to "supported" "supported with policy" and "deprecated" per CISA

>       As of September 10th 2024, Microsoft has released a solution for Active Directory network authentication issues resulting from the May 2022 patches that impacted some PIV network authenications. The September patch applies to Windows Server 2019 and later and includes a mechanism for support of what are considered "weak" identifiers asserted by PIV authentication certificates (e.g., UPN or X509IssuerSubject altsecid) and mapped to AD user accounts.  AD administrators now have the ability to add registry keys that include what is being termed a "Triple Mapping" or "Policy Tuple" that allows the domain controller to determine if an authentication certificate is issued from a trusted Certification Authority (CA), and if it asserts an acceptable policy OID, before defining acceptable identifiers which are then considered "strong."  You can read more about these AD changes in the following <a class="usa-link usa-link--external" href="https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/public-sector-blog/enable-strong-name-based-mapping-in-government-scenarios/ba-p/4240402" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Microsoft Public Sector Blog</a>.  Full enforcement mode for use of strong identifiers is still planned to go into effect on Februrary 11, 2025 and compatibility mode will be fully retired on September 10th, 2025.  See Step 4 below regarding Account Linking for further details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      As of September 10th 2024, Microsoft has released a solution for Active Directory network authentication issues resulting from the May 2022 patches that impacted some PIV network authentications. The September patch applies to Windows Server 2019 and later and includes a mechanism for support of "weak" identifiers asserted by PIV authentication certificates (e.g., UPN or X509IssuerSubject altsecid) and mapped to AD user accounts.  AD administrators now have the ability to add registry keys that include what is being termed a "Triple Mapping" or "Policy Tuple" that allows the domain controller to determine if an authentication certificate is issued from a trusted Certification Authority (CA) and if it asserts an acceptable policy OID before defining acceptable identifiers, which are then considered "strong."  You can read more about these AD changes in the following <a class="usa-link usa-link--external" href="https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/public-sector-blog/enable-strong-name-based-mapping-in-government-scenarios/ba-p/4240402" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Microsoft Public Sector Blog</a>.  Full enforcement mode for use of strong identifiers is still planned to go into effect on February 11, 2025 and compatibility mode will be fully retired on September 10th, 2025.  See Step 4 below regarding Account Linking for further details.
```

1. Users have PIV credentials and PIV card readers.
1. You are using Microsoft Active Directory to manage your Windows network.
1. Domain Controllers are running Microsoft Windows Server 2019 or newer.

> 1. User workstations **are joined** to your network and are Windows 8 or newer.

Reviewer: Windows 8 is no longer supported. We should specify Windows 10 or later.

Author: agreed
